# Finding Aid: Series A0585

**URL:** [https://findingaids.nysed.gov/xtf/A0585](https://findingaids.nysed.gov/xtf/A0585)

---

## Overview of the Records

**Repository**
New York State Archives

**Title**
Restoration of citizenship rights application case files

**Inclusive Dates**
1910 to 1944

**Arrangement**
Numerical order by file number, corresponding to a rough chronological order by filing date of application.

**Scope and Content Note**
This series served as a central file of documentation relating to applications to the governor for restoration of citizenship rights. Documents relating to each application were kept in individual folders, on the front of each of which was recorded some or all of the following information: file number; name; prison; county; crime; court; judge; date of sentence; date received at prison; term; date term ended; date application granted or denied; to whom writ delivered (e.g. applicant, name of judge, attorney, etc.); date application presented; and by whom application presented.
Files generally contain the following types of documents: application form filled out by applicant including where born, whether naturalized if born outside the United States, criminal convictions, how employed since discharge from prison, if and when ever before applied for restoration of citizenship rights, if has any family, date, and signature of applicant; letters to the governor advocating favorable action on the application; copies of court documents relating to the conviction; copies of letters of acknowledgment from the governor's office; letter from applicant inquiring as to the status of the application; copy of cover letter from governor's office accompanying the restoration document sent to the applicant if application was approved; and letters from the applicant, family, or friends thanking the governor for granting the application.

**Related Material**
[A0597](https://findingaids.nysed.gov/xtf/A0597) Executive Clemency and Pardon Case Files, contains additional records documenting the governor's executive clemency authority.

**Other Finding Aids**
Name index available is available at the repository.

**Access Restrictions**
Certain records in this series may be exempt from disclosure. State Archives staff will review requests for specific documents and disclose pursuant to New York State Freedom of Information Law (FOIL).

## Access Terms

**Corporate Name(s)**
New York (State). Executive Department

**Geographic Name(s)**
New York (State)

**Subject(s)**
Political rights, Loss of--New York (State)
Governors
Political rights--New York (State)
Clemency
Executive power
Citizenship
Crime
Criminal justice, Administration of

**Function**
Rehabilitating criminals
