# Finding Aid: Series A0629

**URL:** [https://findingaids.nysed.gov/do/2df102df-881c-55bb-96e3-6b095237ccdd](https://findingaids.nysed.gov/do/2df102df-881c-55bb-96e3-6b095237ccdd)

---

Statement on Language
Some content in this finding aid may contain offensive terminology. For more information on why this language is occasionally retained, see: New York State Archives Statement on Harmful Language in Descriptive Resources.

## Overview of the Records

**Repository**
New York State Archives
222 Madison Avenue
Albany, NY 12230

**Summary**
Article 18 of the 1777 State Constitution authorized the governor to grant pardons and reprieves. This power was continued in the constitutions of 1821 and 1846 and expanded to include commutations by Article 5 of the Constitution of 1894. This series consists of ledgers and correspondence maintained by the governor's office to track actions taken and decisions made regarding applications for executive clemency. These volumes document various types of clemency including pardons, commutations, and restorations of citizenship rights.

**Title**
Executive clemency and pardon application ledgers and correspondence

**Quantity**
13.5 cubic feet; 41 volumes

**Inclusive Dates**
1849 to 1903

**Series Number**
A0629

**Arrangement**
Arranged by type of volume (case facts, indexes, letterbooks), then chronological.

**Administrative History**
Article 18 of the 1777 State Constitution authorized the governor to grant pardons and reprieves. This power was continued in the constitutions of 1821 and 1846 and expanded to include commutations by Article 5 of the Constitution of 1894.

**Scope and Content Note**
This series consists of ledgers and correspondence maintained by the governor's office to track actions taken and decisions made regarding applications for executive clemency. Although generally referred to as "pardon ledgers," these volumes actually document various types of clemency including pardons, commutations, and restorations of citizenship rights.
Volumes A, B, and C (the location of subsequent lettered volumes is unknown) contain entries providing the facts of each crime and a chronological listing of events related to pardon or clemency applications from 1849-1854. Information provided includes: name of convict; county; crime; date; term; prison; date each letter or other document received, from whom, and about what; date each action taken, e.g. wrote to district attorney for statement of case, wrote to warden of prison for statement of conduct and health; and disposition of case (if any), e.g. granted pardon (and conditions, if any), term expired, granted restoration, denied the application. Each of these volumes contains a roughly alphabetical name index.
Volumes 1-9 do not include chronological listings of events but provide basic facts about cases from 1857-1884, including: name of convict; county; crime; date convicted; term; prison; documents received, e.g. letter from district attorney, letter from prison superintendent, court minutes, letters and petitions from family and friends; disposition of case (if any), e.g. pardon granted and date and to whom writ sent, term expired and date, sentence commuted, pardon refused and date, died, conditions of pardon (rare) such as must leave state or must abstain from alcohol; and pardon number 1857-1858 only).
Volumes 10-14 provide background summaries of cases from 1883-1890. Information provided includes: date; name; county; crime; term; date sentence expires; prison; by whom application made (e.g. spouse, attorneys); narrative briefly describing the facts of the crime, mitigating circumstances, character of the convict, and health and behavior in prison; and disposition of the case. Each of these volumes contains a roughly alphabetical name index.
Volume 15, covering 1848-1854, consists of pages entitled "Commutations and Pardons Granted by the Governor During the Year 18[specified on each page]." On each page are columns for: name of convict; crime; sentence; date of sentence; date of pardon or commutation; where convicted (county); remarks, usually indicating disposition of the case, e.g. restoration of citizenship rights, and conditions of pardon.
Volumes 16-21, entitled "Applications for Pardon," are actually rough alphabetical name indexes to applications from about 1857-1886 (volumes 20 and 21 have no dates). Although the exact form and content vary from volume to volume, each index includes some or all of the following types of information: name of convict; date pardon or commutation granted or refused; term expired (sometimes with date); and book (A through N; these refer to a now fragmentary series of lettered volumes which comprise series A0626; they are not the same as the lettered volumes A, B, and C in this series) and page. Volume 19 also contains information on convicts released to provide military service during the Civil War, including: name and rank of convict; date and number of special order; arm of service (unit); remarks, e.g. "honorably," "to receive promotion," "to accept commission in new regiment"; and on file with - usually "AG" (adjutant general) or name of an officer. Volume 20 has some names crossed out with red ink and annotated with "P" (pardon), "SE" (sentence expired), "SC" (sentence commuted).
Volume 22 is a daily calendar of the private secretary to the governor containing brief daily entries relating to activities concerning pardon applications. Entries concern such matters as: blank forms to be used in correspondence (samples attached to pages); clemency cases heard - name of convict, name of applicant for clemency; to whom restoration of citizenship forms sent; and extradition requests received - from whom, regarding whom.
Volumes 23-38 are letterpress copybooks of outgoing correspondence signed by the governor's private secretary or pardon clerk. The correspondence answers inquiries or conveys information concerning: status of particular pardon applications; procedures for applying for pardons or restorations of citizenship rights; pardons, commutations, and restorations granted or denied, and sometimes the reason; extraditions ("requisitions") requested of or by the governor; and miscellaneous appointments (volumes 23 and 24). Volumes 23 and 24 each have an alphabetical name index in the front. Correspondence is manuscript until October 1884 (volume 24), at which time typescript correspondence begins to appear. Manuscript and typescript letters are mixed in the remaining volumes, with typescript correspondence appearing with increasing frequency over the years.

**Related Material**
A0597Series A0597, Executive Clemency and Pardon Case Files, contains the documentation submitted during and generated by the clemency application and decision-making process.

**Other Finding Aids**
Alphabetical name indexes are included in volumes A, B, C, 10-14, 23, and 24.

**Processing Information**
Volume 18 was previously filed as Volume 3 of series A0626, Executive Clemency Application Status Ledgers.

**Access Restrictions**
There are no restrictions regarding access to or use of this material.

## Access Terms

**Corporate Name(s)**
New York (State). Executive Department

**Geographic Name(s)**
New York (State)

**Subject(s)**
Pardon--New York (State)
Criminals--Rehabilitation
Governors
Executive power--New York (State)
Criminals--New York (State)
Clemency

**Genre(s)**
Letterpress copybooks
Indexes (reference sources)
Letter books

**Function**
Pardoning

## Detailed Description

*   **File:** Chronological Record and Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 1, **volume A**, **Date:** 1849 to 1851
*   **File:** Chronological Record and Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 1, **volume B**, **Date:** 1851 to 1853
*   **File:** Chronological Record and Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 1, **volume C**, **Date:** 1853 to 1854
*   **File:** Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 2, **volume 1**, **Date:** 1857/1858 December
*   **File:** Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 2, **volume 2**, **Date:** 1858 December/1860
*   **File:** Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 3, **volume 3**, **Date:** 1861/1864 September
*   **File:** Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 4, **volume 4**, **Date:** 1864 October/1867 October
*   **File:** Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 5, **volume 5**, **Date:** 1867 October/1870
*   **File:** Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 5, **volume 6**, **Date:** 1871/1873 December
*   **File:** Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 6, **volume 7**, **Date:** 1873 December/1876 December
*   **File:** Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 6, **volume 8**, **Date:** 1876 December/1879 December
*   **File:** Case Facts, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 7, **volume 9**, **Date:** 1879 December/1884 September
*   **File:** Background Summaries, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 8, **volume 10**, **Date:** 1883 to 1884
*   **File:** Background Summaries, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 8, **volume 11**, **Date:** 1884
*   **File:** Background Summaries, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 8, **volume 12**, **Date:** 1884 to 1886
*   **File:** Background Summaries, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 8, **volume 13**, **Date:** 1886 to 1889
*   **File:** Background Summaries, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 8, **volume 14**, **Date:** 1889 to 1890
*   **File:** Commutations and Pardons Granted, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 9, **volume 15**, **Date:** 1848 to 1854
*   **File:** Index, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 9, **volume 16**, **Date:** 1857 to 1869
*   **File:** Index, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 10, **volume 17**, **Date:** 1860 to 1886
*   **File:** Index, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 11, **volume 18**, **Date:** 1885/ca. 1900
*   **File:** Index, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 11, **volume 19**, **Date:** ca. 1859/1862
*   **File:** Index, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 12, **volume 20**, **Date:** undated
*   **File:** Index, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 12, **volume 21**, **Date:** undated
*   **File:** Daily Calendar, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 12, **volume 22**, **Date:** 1887 to 1891
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 13, **volume 23**, **Date:** 1857
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 13, **volume 24**, **Date:** 1883 to 1885
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 13, **volume 25**, **Date:** 1889 July 3/November 14
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 13, **volume 26**, **Date:** 1889 November 15/1890 May 24
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 13, **volume 27**, **Date:** 1891 May 11/October 17
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 13, **volume 28**, **Date:** 1891 October 19/1892 March 26
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 13, **volume 29**, **Date:** 1892 August 27/1893 March 14
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 13, **volume 30**, **Date:** 1893 November 24/1894 October 18
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 14, **volume 31**, **Date:** 1894 October 18/December 29
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 14, **volume 32**, **Date:** 1895 January 4/December 14
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 14, **volume 33**, **Date:** 1897 January 14/1898 May 11
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 14, **volume 34**, **Date:** 1899 September 6/1900 July 3
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 14, **volume 35**, **Date:** 1900 July 6/December 31
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 14, **volume 36**, **Date:** 1901 January 2/10
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 14, **volume 37**, **Date:** 1901 January 11/September 30
*   **File:** Letter Book, **Unit ID:** A0629-78, **Container:** box 14, **volume 38**, **Date:** 1902 November 14/1903 December 31 (with large gaps)
