# Finding Aid: Series A3217

**URL:** [https://findingaids.nysed.gov/xtf/A3217](https://findingaids.nysed.gov/xtf/A3217)

---

## Overview of the Records

**Repository**
New York State Archives

**Title**
Executive statements

**Inclusive Dates**
1913 to 1921

**Bulk Dates**
1913 to 1918

**Arrangement**
Chronological.

**Scope and Content Note**
This series contains typescript or printed copies of Governor Charles S. Whitman's, Martin H. Glynn's, and Nathan L. Miller's executive statements, often prepared for release to the press, to announce appointments of public officials, or to report on other gubernatorial actions. Announcements concern such issues as: appointment or nomination of persons to offices, councils, or commissions such as: Public Service Commission, commissions to investigate sanity of persons convicted in capital cases, and justices for special terms of the Supreme Court; investigations and resignations of state officials; convicts for whom the governor is considering a pardon, listed on monthly "Pardon Day Calendars"; granting or denial of executive clemency; governor's opinion on pending legislation, in the form of transcripts of correspondence from the governor to legislators; and other topics such as labor matters, military matters, appropriations, and public works projects.

**Related Material**
[A0597](https://findingaids.nysed.gov/xtf/A0597)Series A0597, Executive Clemency and Pardon Case Files, contains related records.

**Access Restrictions**
There are no restrictions regarding access to or use of this material.

## Access Terms

**Personal Name(s)**
- Miller, Nathan L. (Nathan Lewis), 1868-1953
- Glynn, Martin Henry, 1871-1924.
- Whitman, Charles S., 1868-1947.

**Corporate Name(s)**
- New York (State). Governor (1915-1918 : Whitman)
- New York (State). Executive Department
- New York (State). Governor (1913-1914 : Glynn)
- New York (State). Governor (1921-1922 : Miller)

**Geographic Name(s)**
- New York (State)
- New York (State)--Politics and government

**Subject(s)**
- Women--Legal status, laws, etc.
- Public relations and politics
- Governors
- Governors--New York (State)--Powers and duties
- Clemency
